[PC- 1289] Edge Control LoRaWAN Irrigation System v2 (#1162)
arduino/docs-content: content/hardware/05.pro-solutions/solutions-and-kits/edge-control/tutorials/smart-irrigation-system-v2/content.md

- Get water from a garden hose with a flow sensor able to evaluate the amount of consumed water.

## Hardware and Software Requirements

![Project main hardware](assets/HARDWARE.png)

### Hardware Requirements
- [Arduino Edge Control](https://store-usa.arduino.cc/collections/pro-family/products/arduino-edge-control)
- [Arduino MKR WAN 1310](https://store-usa.arduino.cc/products/arduino-mkr-wan-1310?selectedStore=us)
- [Arduino Edge Control Enclosure Kit](https://store-usa.arduino.cc/collections/pro-family/products/edge-control-enclosure-kit)
- Water flow sensor (YF-B2 DN15) (x1)
- Watermark Soil Moisture Sensors (200SS) (x4)
- 2-Wires Latching Solenoid Valves (x4)
- 12 VDC 5Ah acid/lead SLA battery (x1)
- 18 VDC 180 W solar panel (x1)
- 3.4 meters of DN15 PVC pipes (x1)
- DN15 PVC TEE pipes (x3)
- DN15 PVC elbow (x8)
- DN15 Manual Valve (x1)
- DN15 PVC caps (x4)
- DN15 PVC male adapters (x11)
- DN15 wall pipe brackets (x7)
- DN15 to DN20 adapters (x8)
- Rectangular planters (x4)
- DIN rail (x1)
- Cable glands (x6)
- 6 meters of duplex cable AWG 18 (x1)
- Electrical Register Box (x1)

> 

Author: Understood

### Soil Moisture Measurement

Instead of measuring the percentage of water by volume in a given amount of soil, we will be using watermark sensors that are capable of measuring the physical force holding water in the soil, this is correlated with how difficult it is for the plants to extract water from the soil. 

This measurement is done in Centibars, and we can use the following readings as a general guideline:

- **0-10 Centibars** = Saturated soil
- **10-30 Centibars** = Soil is adequately wet (except coarse sands, which are drying)
- **30-60 Centibars** = Usual range for irrigation (most soils)
- **60-100 Centibars** = Usual range for irrigation in heavy clay
- **100-200 Centibars** = Soil is becoming dangerously dry- proceed with caution!

### Arduino Edge Control Code

Let's go through some important code sections to make this application fully operative; starting with the required libraries:

```arduino
#include <Arduino_EdgeControl.h>
#include <Wire.h>
#include <RunningMedian.h>

#include "SensorValues.hpp"

> #include "Helpers.h"

Author: It is working on the Arduino Cloud, I just tested it.

This project is using LoRaWAN®, which stands for Long Range Wide Area Network, and it is a low-power wireless communication protocol designed for connecting battery-operated devices to the internet over long distances. If you want to learn more about LoRa® and LoRaWAN® check this [guide](https://docs.arduino.cc/learn/communication/lorawan-101).

The MKR WAN 1310 will be the **end-device** encharged of connecting to The Things Network (TTN), which is the network server supported by the Arduino Cloud. Learn how to connect the MKR WAN 1310 to TTN using this [guide](https://docs.arduino.cc/tutorials/mkr-wan-1310/the-things-network).

After following the guide you will get two important keys that will be needed for the LoRaWAN® connectivity `APP_EUI` and `APP_KEY`, define them in the `arduino_secrets.h` header of your MKR code.

![LoRaWAN® network credentials](assets/CREDENTIALS.png)

As a **gateway** we will be using the [WisGate Edge Lite 2](https://docs.arduino.cc/hardware/wisgate-edge-lite-2), which will provide long-range coverage and access to the network. Learn how to set up yours using this [guide](https://docs.arduino.cc/tutorials/wisgate-edge-lite-2/getting-started).

> ***If there is coverage of a TTN public gateway in your area, it is not necessary to install yours. Verify it [here](https://ttnmapper.org/heatmap/)***

Reviewer: :) 

```suggestion
***If there is coverage of a TTN public gateway in your area, it is not necessary to install yours. You can check your area network [here](https://ttnmapper.org/heatmap/)***
```

### The Arduino IoT Cloud Dashboard

Taking advantage of the Arduino IoT Cloud, it is possible to seamlessly integrate a simple but powerful dashboard to monitor and visualize the status of the system from remote, resulting in a professional Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) as shown below:

![Arduino Cloud project dashboard ](assets/DASHBOARD1.png)

Within the Arduino IoT Cloud's dashboard, the system variables can be monitored as follow:
- Each solenoid valve status is shown as **OFF** or **ON**.
- The activated time of each valve is graphed next to its state.
- The watermark sensor instant values are shown in gauges alongside a time series record chart.
- There is a resources section showing the battery voltage in a gauge and the water flow in liters per minute, also, it shows the liters of water used.

![Arduino Cloud project dashboard on a smartphone](assets/DASHBOARD-CELL1.png)

> The dashboard is easily accessible from a browser, mobile phone or tablet, allowing a user to receive updates on the irrigation status from anywhere.

Author: I think is fair to do it.

## Full Smart Irrigation System Example

All the necessary files to replicate this application note can be found below:

- The complete code can be downloaded [here](assets/Edge-Control_MKR_Codes.zip).

### The Irrigation System Working

Below you can find some additional images and animations showing how the system works:

![Watermark sensors](assets/WATERMARK.jpg)
![Battery connection](assets/BATTERY.png)
![Irrigation in zone three and four](assets/WATER1.gif)

> 

Reviewer: Put something similar to this at the end of this section.

```suggestion
Remember that the system is designed to be scalable and therefore it is possible to control 4 big irrigation zones independently like, for example, different cultivated fields with different crops with different water and soil needs.
```

---
title: 'LoRaWAN® Irrigation System Using Arduino® Edge Control'

> description: "This application note describes how to control a four zones irrigation system using the Edge Control and the Arduino Cloud with LoRaWAN® connectivity"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "This application note describes how to control a four zones irrigation system using Edge Control and Arduino Cloud with LoRaWAN® connectivity"
```

difficulty: intermediate
tags:
  - Irrigation System
  - Arduino Edge Control
  - Arduino MKR WAN 1310
  - Solenoid Valve
  - Arduino IoT Cloud
  - Application Note
  - WisGate Lite
  - LoRaWAN®
author: 'Christopher Mendez'
libraries:
  - name: Arduino_EdgeControl
    url: https://github.com/arduino-libraries/Arduino_EdgeControl
  - name: ArduinoJson
    url: https://github.com/bblanchon/ArduinoJson
  - name: Arduino_ConnectionsHandler
    url: https://github.com/arduino-libraries/Arduino_ConnectionHandler
  - name: ArduinoIoTCloud
    url: https://github.com/arduino-libraries/ArduinoIoTCloud
software:
  - ide-v1
  - ide-v2
  - web-editor
  - iot-cloud
  - arduino-agent
hardware:
  - hardware/05.pro-solutions/boards/solutions-and-kits/edge-control
  - hardware/05.pro-solutions/boards/solutions-and-kits/enclosure-kit
  - hardware/01.mkr/01.boards/mkr-wan-1310
---

> ## Introduction

Reviewer: Great introduction developing the intention of the application note

This is the idea! thanks!

Reviewer: It is true that I normally prefer to have fewer paragraphs in the introduction.

But to be honest all of them are giving the reader nice and useful information and I don't find a way to reduce them so let's keep it as it is.

Author: Copied, thanks!

> We know that agricultural activities are normally carried out in remote environments, this makes access to electricity and connectivity a challenge. 

Reviewer: Let's try to avoid here the use of the first plural person and use a more impersonal one

Something like:

```suggestion
Agricultural & farm activities are normally carried out in remote environments where having access to consistent electricity power sources and good communication connectivity are a challenge. 
```

> Smart farming techniques are being implemented more and more due to the importance of optimizing the use of resources. This includes the demand for more efficient, eco-friendly, and more profitable crops.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Smart farming techniques are being implemented more and more due to the importance of optimizing the use of resources while increasing the demand for more efficient, eco-friendly, and profitable crops.
```
Small IMHO improvement suggestion

> ![Application Note Overview. Each pot represents one individual irrigation zone capable of watering a crop field](assets/Thumbnail.png)

Reviewer: Thank you, it is really important to explain to the reader that this solution can control big irrigation zones without any problem.

Implementing traditional wired communication infrastructure in remote areas can be expensive and time-consuming. LoRaWAN®, being a wireless technology, provides a cost-effective alternative as it requires minimal infrastructure setup, reducing installation and maintenance costs.

Arduino has you covered in these scenarios with its Pro solutions. With products designed to work in remote environments, supplying their power from renewable sources and providing long-distance connectivity and low power consumption.

The shown application note is intended to replicate a scaled smart farming application, that can be implemented on real agriculture fields using the same hardware and firmware.

## Goals

> The goal of this application note is to showcase a sensorized farming irrigation system using a combination of an Edge Control, an MKR WAN 1310, and the Arduino IoT Cloud. The project's objectives are the following:

Reviewer: Last paragraph of the introduction and first paragraph of the goals are really similar, please look for solutions to fusion or differentiate them more.

Reviewer: Mention somehow lorawan too

> - Independently control four irrigation zones using latching valves.

Reviewer: are goals following some kind of order?

I know is tricky so this an open question about if we can create some kind or order not only in this application note but also in the rest of them cc @mcmchris @TaddyHC @canchebagur

Author: Actually, I am not following any particular order.

- Leverage MKR WAN 1310 with LoRa® and a Wisgate (Lite or PRO) to communicate with Arduino IoT Cloud.
- Monitor soil moisture and decide whether to irrigate based on it. 
- Display the soil humidity level on the Edge Control Enclosure kit LCD.
- Manually activate irrigation through Enclosure Kit built-in push button.
- Monitor average humidity level, irrigation time and water consumption on dedicated charts on Arduino IoT Cloud.
- Get water from a garden hose with a flow sensor able to evaluate the amount of consumed water.

## Hardware and Software Requirements

![Project main hardware](assets/HARDWARE.png)

### Hardware Requirements

> - Arduino Edge Control

Reviewer: Add an hyperlink to the Arduino products to the shop :)

- Arduino MKR WAN 1310
- Arduino Edge Control Enclosure Kit
- Water flow sensor (YF-B2 DN15)

> - WATERMARK Soil Moisture Sensors.

Reviewer: Add quantities to these items too please I know it is obvious for the reader the quantities that they need to use but please remember how companies and organization works... this can end in an email to another department that probably don't know anything about this stuff and they are not putting attention.

If our user can literally copy and paste this section into an email we are doing an excellent job. cc @mcmchris @TaddyHC @canchebagur

> - WATERMARK Soil Moisture Sensors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- WATERMARK Soil Moisture Sensors
```

Reviewer: can we avoid the caps or it is not possible?
can we also add more technical details so the user can find a similar one?

- 2-Wires Latching Solenoid Valves (x4)
- 12 VDC 5Ah acid/lead SLA battery (x1)
- 18 VDC 180 W solar panel.
- 3.4 meters of DN15 PVC pipes (x1)
- DN15 PVC TEE pipes (x3)
- DN15 PVC elbow (x8)
- DN15 Manual Valve (x1)
- DN15 PVC caps (x4)
- DN15 PVC male adapters (x11)
- DN15 wall pipe brackets (x7)
- DN15 to DN20 adapters (x8)
- Rectangular planters (x4)
- DIN rail (x1)
- Cable glands (x6)
- 6 meters of duplex cable AWG 18 (x1)
- Electrical Register Box (x1)

### Software Requirements

- [Arduino IDE 1.8.10+](https://www.arduino.cc/en/software), [Arduino IDE 2](https://www.arduino.cc/en/software), or [Arduino Web Editor](https://create.arduino.cc/editor).
- If you are going to use an offline Arduino IDE, you must install the following libraries: `Arduino_EdgeControl`, `RunningMedian`, `ArduinoIoTCloud`, `ArduinoJson` and `Arduino_ConnectionsHandler`. You can install them through the Arduino IDE Library Manager.
- The [Irrigation System Arduino Sketches](assets/Edge-Control_MKR_Codes.zip).
- [Arduino Create Agent](https://create.arduino.cc/getting-started/plugin/welcome) to provision the MKR WAN 1310 on the Arduino IoT Cloud.

> 

Reviewer: CONTINUE HERE

---
title: 'LoRaWAN® Irrigation System Using Arduino® Edge Control'
description: "This application note describes how to control a four zones irrigation system using Edge Control and Arduino Cloud with LoRaWAN® connectivity"
difficulty: intermediate
tags:
  - Irrigation System
  - Arduino Edge Control
  - Arduino MKR WAN 1310
  - Solenoid Valve
  - Arduino IoT Cloud
  - Agriculture
  - WisGate Lite
  - LoRaWAN®
author: 'Christopher Mendez'
libraries:
  - name: Arduino_EdgeControl
    url: https://github.com/arduino-libraries/Arduino_EdgeControl
  - name: ArduinoJson
    url: https://github.com/bblanchon/ArduinoJson
  - name: Arduino_ConnectionsHandler
    url: https://github.com/arduino-libraries/Arduino_ConnectionHandler
  - name: ArduinoIoTCloud
    url: https://github.com/arduino-libraries/ArduinoIoTCloud
software:
  - ide-v1
  - ide-v2
  - web-editor
  - iot-cloud
  - arduino-agent
hardware:
  - hardware/05.pro-solutions/boards/solutions-and-kits/edge-control
  - hardware/05.pro-solutions/boards/solutions-and-kits/enclosure-kit
  - hardware/01.mkr/01.boards/mkr-wan-1310
---

## Introduction

> Agricultural & farm activities are normally carried out in remote environments where having access to consistent electricity power sources and good communication connectivity are a challenge. 

Reviewer: I'm ok with this phrase with or without that comma

- DIN rail (x1)
- Cable glands (x6)
- 6 meters of duplex cable AWG 18 (x1)
- Electrical Register Box (x1)
- Access to the water system, in case you do not have access to the water system and you want to use a water tank instead, please take also a look at the [Smart Farm Irrigation](https://docs.arduino.cc/tutorials/edge-control/smart-irrigation-system) application note to know more.
### Software Requirements

- [Arduino IDE 1.8.10+](https://www.arduino.cc/en/software), [Arduino IDE 2](https://www.arduino.cc/en/software), or [Arduino Web Editor](https://create.arduino.cc/editor).
- If you are going to use an offline Arduino IDE, you must install the following libraries: `Arduino_EdgeControl`, `RunningMedian`, `ArduinoIoTCloud`, `ArduinoJson` and `Arduino_ConnectionsHandler`. You can install them through the Arduino IDE Library Manager.
- The [Irrigation System Arduino Sketches](assets/Edge-Control_MKR_Codes.zip).
- [Arduino Create Agent](https://create.arduino.cc/getting-started/plugin/welcome) to provision the MKR WAN 1310 on the Arduino IoT Cloud.

## Irrigation System Setup

- The Edge Control Enclosure Kit is perfect to enclose the main board alongside the MKR shields:

> ![Edge Control, MKR WAN1310 and the Enclosure Kit Assembly](assets/ASSEM_GIF.gif)

Reviewer 2: This is super cool, great job 🔝

Author: Thanks 🙏

***You can also use 3-Wires motorized valves. See this [guide](https://docs.arduino.cc/tutorials/edge-control/motorized-ball-valve) for reference.***

- The water flow sensor will be connected to a +12 VDC output, GND and the signal wire to the P1.15/IRQ_C_CH_1 of the J3 connector. 

![Watermark and water flow sensors connection diagram](assets/SENSORS_CONNECTIONS.png)

- The four watermark sensors will be connected to a terminal block rail; one terminal to the common and the others to the watermark sensor inputs from 1 to 4 respectively on J8. Depending on the wiring of your sensors, you can use electrical clamps to ease the connection.

The final wiring should be similar to the following picture:

![Edge Control with all the wiring](assets/PHYSICAL_CONN1.png)

## Irrigation System Overview

The irrigation system works as a whole: it integrates the water flow measurement and the activation of the valves, done by the Edge Control, with the Cloud communication using the MKR WAN 1310.

The Edge Control is responsible for:

- Measuring the water usage with a water flow sensor.
- Measuring the soil humidity level using watermark sensors.

> - Controlling the LCD screen of the Edge Control Enclosure kit; where different system variables will be shown, including soil humidity.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Controlling the LCD screen of the Edge Control Enclosure kit, where different system variables will be shown, including soil humidity.
```

- Deciding whether to irrigate based on soil local humidity.

The MKR WAN 1310 is responsible for:

- Providing Cloud connectivity using LoRaWAN®.
- Reporting the values of the Edge Control sensors on the cloud. 

The communication between both devices is done leveraging the I2C communication protocol.

![Smart irrigation system with Edge Control](assets/SETUP.png)

### Valves Control

> The valves can be controlled manually by using the onboard button, one tap opens the valve one, two taps valve two, and so on. Also, the valves can be controlled automatically by the system when the soil moisture is poor. To do this the "Smart mode" has to be enabled by tapping the button five times. The working time of the valves is monitored and reported on the cloud to enable an efficient visualization of the average daily use.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The valves can be controlled manually by using the onboard button, one tap opens the first valve, two taps the second valve, and so on. In addition, the valves can be controlled automatically by the system when the soil moisture is poor. To do so, a "Smart mode" has to be enabled by tapping the button five times. The working time of the valves is monitored and reported on the cloud to enable an efficient visualization of the average daily use.
```

![Latching valves activation pulse](assets/VALVES_ACTIVATION.png)

> ***The valves used are latching ones, which means they are activated by a single pulse. The polarity defines if it opens or closes. This pulse must be in the range of 20-40 ms, more than that time could damage the latching outputs of your device.*** 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
***The used valves used are latching, which means they are activated by a single pulse. The polarity defines if it opens or closes. This pulse must be in the range of 20-40 ms, more than that time could damage the latching outputs of your device.*** 
```

### Water Usage

> The water flow sensor will measure the water used and will calculate its volume in liters. This information will be monitored through the cloud and the integrated LCD.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The water flow sensor will measure the consumed water and will calculate its volume in liters. This information will be monitored through the cloud and the integrated LCD.
```

![Water flow sensor output signal](assets/FLOW_SENSOR.png)

The water flow is measured by a Hall effect sensor that generates a pulsed output by the rotation steps of a propeller inside the metal body.

The data is shown on dedicated widgets in the Arduino IoT Cloud.

![Water usage widgets in the Arduino Cloud](assets/WATER_FLOW.png)

### Soil Moisture Measurement

> Instead of measuring the percentage of water by volume in a given amount of soil, we will be using watermark sensors that are capable of measuring the physical force holding water in the soil. Those measurements are correlated with how difficult it is for the plants to extract water from the soil, being really interesting data for agriculture applications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Instead of measuring the percentage of water by volume in a given amount of soil, we will be using watermark sensors that are capable of measuring the physical force holding the water in the soil. Those measurements are correlated with the effort plants have to make to extract water from the soil, a really interesting data for agricultural applications.
```

The measurement is done in Centibars, and we can use the following readings as a general guideline:

- **0-10 Centibars**: Saturated soil
- **10-30 Centibars**: Soil is adequately wet (except coarse sands, which are drying)
- **30-60 Centibars**: Usual range for irrigation (most soils)
- **60-100 Centibars**: Usual range for irrigation in heavy clay

> - **100-200 Centibars**: Soil is becoming dangerously dry- proceed with caution!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **100-200 Centibars**: Soil is becoming dangerously dry - Proceed with caution!
```

  Serial.print("IO Expander initializazion ");
  if (!Expander.begin()) {
    Serial.println("failed.");
    Serial.println("Please, be sure to enable gated 3V3 and 5V power rails");
    Serial.println("via Power.enable3V3() and Power.enable5V().");
  } else Serial.println("succeeded.");

  // Init IRQ INPUT pins
  pinMode(IRQ_CH1, INPUT);

  // Attach callbacks to IRQ pins
  attachInterrupt(digitalPinToInterrupt(IRQ_CH1), [] {irqCounts++;},FALLING);

  // LCD button definition
  pinMode(POWER_ON, INPUT);
  attachInterrupt(POWER_ON, buttonPress, RISING);

  Watermark.begin();
  Latching.begin();
  analogReadResolution(adcResolution);

  setSystemClock(__DATE__, __TIME__);  // define system time as a reference for the RTC

  // Init the LCD display
  LCD.begin(16, 2);
  LCD.backlight();

  LCD.home();
  LCD.print("LoRa Irrigation");
  LCD.setCursor(5, 1);
  LCD.print("System");
  CloseAll();
  delay(2000);

  LCD.clear();
}
```

To save energy and resources, the Edge Control has different power lines that must be enabled to power the different internal and external peripherals. In this case, the 3.3 V, 5 V, Battery, and the MKR1 slot need to be enabled. 

> An external interruption is being used for the water flow sensor and the LCD button, they are attached to the IRQ_CH1 and the POWER_ON inputs respectively. To handle all the I/O, the I/O Expander together with the Enclosure Kit LCD and the sensors inputs need to be initialized. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An external interruption is being used for the water flow sensor and the LCD button, they are attached to the IRQ_CH1 and the POWER_ON inputs respectively. To handle all the I/Os, the I/O Expander together with the Enclosure Kit LCD and the sensors inputs need to be initialized. 
```

  detectTaps();
  tapsHandler();

  // reset the valves accumuldated on time every day at midnight
  if (getLocalhour() == " 00:00:00") {
    Serial.println("Resetting accumulators every day");
    vals.z1_on_time_local = 0;
    vals.z2_on_time_local = 0;
    vals.z3_on_time_local = 0;
    vals.z4_on_time_local = 0;
    delay(1000);
  }

  readWatermark();

  if ((millis() - oldTime2) >= 1000)  // Only process counters once per second
  {
    oldTime2 = millis();
    readWaterFLow();
    auto vbat = Power.getVBat(adcResolution);
    Serial.print("Battery Voltage: ");
    Serial.println(vbat);
    vals.battery_volt_local = vbat;
  }

  unsigned long currentMillis = millis();

  if (currentMillis - previousMillis >= interval) {

    previousMillis = currentMillis;

    // send local sensors values and retrieve cloud variables status back and forth
    Serial.println("Sending variables to MKR");
    updateSensors();
  }

  // activate, deactivate and keep time of valves function
  valvesHandler();
}
```

The Edge Control will check the number of button taps for the valve's manual control and handle the right action to do through the use of a switch case statement.

> Then will read the watermark sensors, and periodically it will measure the battery voltage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then, it will read the watermark sensors and periodically measure the battery voltage.
```

The dashboard is easily accessible from a browser, mobile phone or tablet, allowing a user to receive updates on the irrigation status from anywhere.
## Full Smart Irrigation System Example

All the necessary files to replicate this application note can be found below:

- The complete code can be downloaded [here](assets/Edge-Control_MKR_Codes.zip).

### The Irrigation System Working

Below you can find some additional images and animations showing how the system works:

![Watermark sensors](assets/WATERMARK.jpg)
![Battery connection](assets/BATTERY.png)
![Irrigation in zone three and four](assets/WATER1.gif)

Remember that the system is designed to be scalable and therefore it is possible to control 4 big irrigation zones independently like, for example, different cultivated fields with different crops with different water and soil needs.

## Conclusion

In this application note, you have learned how to build a LoRaWAN® irrigation system to water your crops automatically or manually and monitor the crop's status remotely. Thanks to the soil moisture analysis, you can avoid irrigation when it's not necessary, saving water and avoiding over-irrigation or flooding problems. 

> Arduino Edge Control allows you to easily implement this kind of agriculture systems ready for field deployment. Alongside MKR boards, it can get access to the network using the more suitable technology for your application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Arduino Edge Control allows you to easily implement this kind of agriculture systems ready for field deployment. Alongside MKR boards, it can get access to the network using the most suitable technology for your application.
```

In this project LoRaWAN® was used leveraging its capabilities, this technology is perfect for remote deployments where there's no internet connection and for battery-powered devices because of its low energy consumption.

> Thanks to the Edge Control capabilities of controlling different types of actuators and handling a vast variety of input sensors, it is a great choice for developing robust and agriculture environment-proof solutions.

Reviewer: Much better, thanks!

![Arduino Cloud project dashboard on a smartphone](assets/DASHBOARD-CELL1.png)

The dashboard is easily accessible from a browser, mobile phone or tablet, allowing a user to receive updates on the irrigation status from anywhere. 

>  Due to LoRaWAN® properties, the communication between the device and the Arduino Cloud is not in real-time, it is not recommended to control the valves remotely from the Arduino Cloud.

Reviewer: @martab1994 are we ok with this phrase?
